Create Meeting Notes 51 (#320)
cardano-foundation/CIPs: BiweeklyMeetings/2022-08-16.md

## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  

## August 16 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, Sebastien Guillemot, ~Frederic Johnson~, Robert Phair. 

> **Guests**: ~Morgan Thomas~, Michael Liesenfelt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Guests**: Christophe Garant, Michael Liesenfelt, Andrew Westberg, Alessandro Konrad, Thomas Vellekoop
```

**Matthias** -: There are also a few suggestions purely on the form itself, mainly that this, the CIP contains quite a lot of equations and visualizations, which are so far linked through an external Google drive as images. So I suggested the order to actually use the new latest support from GitHub that landed some months ago to actually display equations directly in GitHub, or at least to use an image, but hosted next to the CIP itself, that will simplify a bit. And the author has acknowledged those points and said it would be working on updating that according to the suggestions. So some more to come, I guess.

> **Robert Phair** -: As far as using the equations in CIPs and in GitHub content, the difficulty they ran into with another CIP 50, did they ever work out the presentation of those tech type equations on the mobile platform? Someone said they weren't working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Robert Phair** -: As far as using the equations in CIPs and in GitHub content, the difficulty they ran into with another CIP 50, did they ever work out the presentation of LaTeX type equations on the mobile platform? Someone said they weren't working.
```

> **Matthias** -: So there is only Christoff on the chat commenting that. Yeah, they have done equations on GitHub, prone to some issues as you learn from CIP 50. So you are saying it's specifically on a mobile device, that it is not supported yet?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: So there is only Christophe on the chat commenting that. Yeah, they have done equations on GitHub, prone to some issues as you learn from CIP 50. So you are saying it's specifically on a mobile device, that it is not supported yet?
```

> **Robert Phair** -: That's what I think Christoff was saying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Robert Phair** -: That's what I think Christophe was saying.
```

**Matthias** -: Which is probably okay. I mean, if you are reading a CIP of that magnitude on a mobile that's, I mean, you're pretty brave I would say.

> **Robert Phair** -: I get it. I hadn't thought of it that way. If they could go back to the original store. So if they want to see that kind of detail in the equations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Robert Phair** -: I get it. I hadn't thought of it that way. They could go back to the original form if they want to see that kind of detail in the equations.
```

> **Matthias** -: Probably, it looks good in VS Code than Jupyter Notebooks, said Christoff. But then in GitHub and stuff, can't render, I guess, does not render on mobile in brackets, in desktop. I can't speak if, yeah, not, actually, since you are here, it'll faster than just writing on the chat. Can we just unmute you. Yes, it's done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: Probably, it looks good in VS Code than Jupyter Notebooks, said Christophe. But then in GitHub and stuff, can't render, I guess, does not render on mobile in brackets, in desktop. I can't speak if, yeah, not, actually, since you are here, it'll faster than just writing on the chat. Can we just unmute you. Yes, it's done.
```

> **Christoff** -: Can you guys hear me?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Christophe** -: Can you guys hear me?
```

**Robert Phair** -: Yes. Hello?

> **Christoff** -: Oh, Hey everybody. Yeah. So as I learned in C50, yeah, the mobile definitely doesn't render, but then there's some brackets, especially curly brackets that doesn't render on GitHub even on desktop. So that's why we reverted back to basically screenshot equations from external source. Pictures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Christoff** -: Oh, Hey everybody. Yeah. So as I learned in CIP 50, yeah, the mobile definitely doesn't render, but then there's some brackets, especially curly brackets that doesn't render on GitHub even on desktop. So that's why we reverted back to basically screenshot equations from external source. Pictures.
```

> **Christoff** -: Oh, Hey everybody. Yeah. So as I learned in C50, yeah, the mobile definitely doesn't render, but then there's some brackets, especially curly brackets that doesn't render on GitHub even on desktop. So that's why we reverted back to basically screenshot equations from external source. Pictures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Christophe** -: Oh, Hey everybody. Yeah. So as I learned in C50, yeah, the mobile definitely doesn't render, but then there's some brackets, especially curly brackets that doesn't render on GitHub even on desktop. So that's why we reverted back to basically screenshot equations from external source. Pictures.
```

**Matthias** -: Is it a problem from GitHub specifically, or is it [inaudible 00:03:54] general that is just-

> **Christoff** -: No it's specifically GitHub and I did some digging and I don't know, I guess the layman's interpretation, it was something with like Java... Sorry, I just got a call. JavaScript rendering on the website itself with GitHub. And there were some conflicts and it seems like a mess, but it'll look good in VS Code and even Jupyter Notebooks and just regular [inaudible 00:04:25] it's fine. But when it's in GitHub read me, it breaks. So you have to add some extra back slashes and curly brackets and yeah, we eventually just reverted back. For simpler equations, it is probably okay. But for more complex things, it breaks it seems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Christophe** -: No it's specifically GitHub and I did some digging and I don't know, I guess the layman's interpretation, it was something with like Java... Sorry, I just got a call. JavaScript rendering on the website itself with GitHub. And there were some conflicts and it seems like a mess, but it'll look good in VS Code and even Jupyter Notebooks and just regular [inaudible 00:04:25] it's fine. But when it's in GitHub README, it breaks. So you have to add some extra back slashes and curly brackets and yeah, we eventually just reverted back. For simpler equations, it is probably okay. But for more complex things, it breaks it seems.
```

**Matthias** -: Okay. Yeah. I mean, it's a brand new feature, so that's not yet fully ready I imagine. Although it was shipped, but yeah. Okay. I think the equations in CIP 45 are a bit simpler than those on CIP50 or at least I was able to render some of them quite easily, but I haven't tried to render all of them, arguably. So there are some more complex equations below after that.

> **Christoff** -: Yeah. If it works great, but yeah, just be prepared to check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Christophe** -: Yeah. If it works great, but yeah, just be prepared to check.
```

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Okay. Is, by the way, do you or, and I see we have also Michael here, have any comments on CIP45? More on the content of the [inaudible 00:05:35] on itself and how it reflects to CIP 50. There is some kind of overlap, but it's definitely taking a slightly different route or at least just focusing on the pledge parameter here.

> **Christoff** -: I personally haven't reviewed it, but now I will. I wasn't that aware it so...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Christophe** -: I personally haven't reviewed it, but now I will. I wasn't that aware of it so...
```

**Matthias** -: Good. That's why we have the meetings then.

> **Christoff** -: But I'll do that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Christophe** -: But I'll do that.
```

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Maybe we can move it to review for the next meeting again, just to let people have time to go through the content. It's quite, I mean, the overall idea is quite simple, but the details as always, right, the complexity lies in the details and some of the equations are not quite obvious. So it takes a bit of effort to process.

**Robert Phair** -: Michael, this is a time one that I got you to chime in on the forum about, you made a comment there. So I think it is one of the ones that you've seen.

> **Michael** -: The notes. I was looking at a couple of those and there was that I believe it's CIP 37, this one, 45 and I guess 50, that is all with pledge and the centralization metrics is concerned. It's very, well, it's hard to go through you, you'd expect so. [inaudible 00:07:03] so I don't know, I wish I could give us [inaudible 00:07:04] and maybe there's a way that we can bundle them, simpler path to a review. I don't remember it's particularities on the phone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Michael** -: The notes. I was looking at a couple of those and there was that I believe it's CIP 37, this one, 45 and I guess 50, that is all with pledge and the centralization metrics is concerned. It's very, well, it's hard to go through you, you'd expect so. [inaudible 00:07:03] so I don't know, I wish I could give us [inaudible 00:07:04] and maybe there's a way that we can bundle them, simpler path to a review. I don't remember it's particularities on the whole.
```

**Matthias** -: The way I see it currently is, we have CIP 50, where most of the [inaudible 00:07:22] discussion really happens, which is probably the most structured of all those proposals that we have at least in terms of the [inaudible 00:07:30] operations, if I can say, or how the feedback is incorporated in the CIP. So all those other CIPs that are kind of overlapping, but not exactly the same, are they think the same issues as CIP 50, I think they should be part of the same discussions because they all have a similar set of assumptions. They all have a similar set of the outcome. The question is now, which one are we going to adopt in the end? So if there is a more generic discussion happening on this decentralization concern, we want an incentive on [inaudible 00:08:07]. I think it's best driven from CIP 50 and includes feedback or update from all those other site proposals that happened.

> **Matthias** -: I think this is a bit what Michael is also saying in the chats, by saying I've included CIP 45 in the CIP 50 references since the first draft. And I think it's good to keep that as part of this, the discussions, because in a way it's part of the whole same discussions. And as we are now trying to get more and more attention from IUG research, I mean, we've got not going to have that discussion five time, one for each of those CIPS, but probably once and for all, at least for the next proposal to come and see which direction we take.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: I think this is a bit what Michael is also saying in the chats, by saying I've included CIP 45 in the CIP 50 references since the first draft. And I think it's good to keep that as part of this, the discussions, because in a way it's part of the whole same discussions. And as we are now trying to get more and more attention from IOG research, I mean, we've got not going to have that discussion five time, one for each of those CIPs, but probably once and for all, at least for the next proposal to come and see which direction we take.
```

**Robert Phair** -: I've also suggested to the CIP 45 author that he come into the discord on the CIP 50 channel, and to review what's already happened and to explain to others that have been following the issue for their issue, how his presentation is different and similar.

> **Matthias** -: Yeah, so perhaps that's also kind of, I don't know, part of CIP 50 rational section, they have a kind of alternatives considered and list a bit of the pro and cons of those various other CIPs and why maybe what was taken from them, what was rejected from them for which reason, because it might actually also have discussions and having one place to centralize all the results there might help too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: Yeah, so perhaps that's also kind of, I don't know, part of CIP 50 rationale section, they have a kind of alternatives considered and list a bit of the pro and cons of those various other CIPs and why maybe what was taken from them, what was rejected from them for which reason, because it might actually also have discussions and having one place to centralize all the results there might help too.
```

**Robert Phair** -: Just quickly. Might there be a benefit to changing the name of the PR 242 discord channel to decentralizations DIPs to encourage a more general discussion like that?

**Matthias** -: Perhaps, but then I would suggest more rewards and incentive rework because I mean, the centralization is of a consequence of that, but this is really about reworking the rewards and incentives of Cardano and how do we currently define stake polls, rewards and all of that?

**Robert Phair** -: Yes.

**Matthias** -: Any comment on those points? Is that no?

> **Robert Phair** -: You saw when you, at the [inaudible 00:10:43] when you looked over that there was a suggestion that the Mac addressed at the machine might be considered relevant to the point of CIP 45. And I've suggested that maybe that should be moved off to the Cardano forum and kept out of this CIP 45 discussion on GitHub. I believe it's relevant to the CIP as stated and, I think the rationale for doing that is not correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Robert Phair** -: You saw when you, at the [inaudible 00:10:43] when you looked over that there was a suggestion that the MAC addresses on the machine might be considered relevant to the point of CIP 45. And I've suggested that maybe that should be moved off to the Cardano forum and kept out of this CIP 45 discussion on GitHub. I believe it's irrelevant to the CIP as stated and, I think the rationale for doing that is not correct.
```

**Matthias** -: Yeah. I need to read through that comment a bit more in detail.

> **Robert Phair** -: Anything regarding the Mac addresses and how the Mac address could be used to further the ambitions of that CIP I think can be skipped over in considering the CIP. It's been a digression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Robert Phair** -: Anything regarding the MAC addresses and how the MAC address could be used to further the ambitions of that CIP I think can be skipped over in considering the CIP. It's been a digression.
```

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah. I think for this CIP, we could try and bike shed on the specific fields, but I think this probably will not be super useful on this versioning to help with this anyway. So I think from this one, the tricky part will be trying to measure how much backing the CIP has but as you mentioned, this was then a combination with a few projects, so it'd be good if these projects [inaudible 00:41:11].

**Andrew**- : Most of them are all signed, to contributors.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah. So I know they're all the authors, but it'd be good if they just, being just like, oh yes we're actually using this for real project of some kind. Or if you had a wallet, I know [inaudible 00:41:26] wallet included music NFTs in their wallet. So maybe it'd be good to have them.

**Andrew** -: Yeah. So they're actually one of the people that is involved with this. So maybe if we can get them to comment on it, I'll talk to them about that.

> **Matthias** -: And this is something I would love to see in the rational section as well. Exactly what you just explained. This is a collaborative effort between actual people building with, in the music industry, on, kind of, i don't know, the blockchain in general and that's also why we justifying some of the choices that have been made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: And this is something I would love to see in the rationale section as well. Exactly what you just explained. This is a collaborative effort between actual people building with, in the music industry, on, kind of, i don't know, the blockchain in general and that's also why we justifying some of the choices that have been made.
```

**Andrew** -: Okay.

**Matthias** -: That just gives a bit of context on where the decision comes from in the legitivity of that.

**Andrew** -: Okay.

**Matthias** -: From a technical standpoint, just to clarify things, this is proposing to extend the on chain with the data and the set of fields that is provided alongside current NFTs from the CIP 25 right?

**Andrew** -: That's correct. It supports CIP 25 version one and version two.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Then should we maybe move it to last check for the next goal provided that this was already discussed with a few?

> **Andrew** -: Yeah. We've had several two-hour meetings with people. There were 20 different groups in the room, either producing music on Cardano or representing wallets or players or things like that. So yeah, I will add to the rational section before the next meeting that this comes up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Andrew** -: Yeah. We've had several two-hour meetings with people. There were 20 different groups in the room, either producing music on Cardano or representing wallets or players or things like that. So yeah, I will add to the rationale section before the next meeting that this comes up.
```

**Matthias** -: Okay. Thanks.

**Andrew** -: Probably not next meeting, but maybe the meeting after, because the next meeting is always in the times I can't be at.

**Matthias** -: You're right. So let's keep that in for the US based next meeting.

**Andrew** -: Yep, thank you.

**Matthias** -: Or US friendly. So, okay. I want to keep some time for CIP 50 as we discussed initially. So maybe Michael, if you're still around and want to give us a short update on progress on that side, there was a discussions with Argulus that happened last week. If I recall correctly in the SPO call. So maybe some news on that. You should be able to speak. But I can't hear you.

**Anthony Meyer** -:I'm also still not hearing Michael. Is it only me?

**Matthias** -: No. Okay. So there is no one speaking, right? I see Michael keeps unmuting himself, but we can't hear you somehow. I thought it might just be me, but no.

**Anthony Meyer** -: No, I'm also not hearing him. 

> **Matthias** -: Christoff is also unmuted. If you also maybe have some info on that. So he rejoined and we still can't hear you. Nope. Well, that's unfortunate to, I'm not see any Michael. Michael is in chat. You don't see him? He's in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: Christophe is also unmuted. If you also maybe have some info on that. So he rejoined and we still can't hear you. Nope. Well, that's unfortunate too, I'm not seeing any Michael. Michael is in chat. You don't see him? He's in the list.
```

**Anthony Meyer** -: I did see Michael at the start of this call.

> **Matthias** -: I'm failing on audio. Yeah, we can see that. So I don't know if Christoff maybe wants to give us that shorter bit. I think you've both chatting on that. Okay. Or we can leave it for next time or has it written a update maybe? On the meeting windows app. Yeah.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: I'm failing on audio. Yeah, we can see that. So I don't know if Christophe maybe wants to give us that shorter bit. I think you've both chatting on that. Okay. Or we can leave it for next time or has it written a update maybe? On the meeting windows app. Yeah.
```

> **Christoff** -: I guess I, can you guys hear me?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Christophe** -: I guess I, can you guys hear me?
```

**Anthony Meyer** -: Yes.

**Matthias** -: Yes, we can hear you.

> **Christoff** -: Thanks, Michael can't speak, but I guess I just put on, I just updated a pull request on the rank leverage based ranking recommendation last night, which we've removed a grading system to kind of be a little bit more objective. So it's just kind of a 10 is the best and then zero is the worst kind of recommendation, but again, it's just a recommendation, not actually core to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Christophe** -: Thanks, Michael can't speak, but I guess I just put on, I just updated a pull request on the rank leverage based ranking recommendation last night, which we've removed a grading system to kind of be a little bit more objective. So it's just kind of a 10 is the best and then zero is the worst kind of recommendation, but again, it's just a recommendation, not actually core to it.
```

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah. I think for this CIP, we could try and bike shed on the specific fields, but I think this probably will not be super useful on this versioning to help with this anyway. So I think from this one, the tricky part will be trying to measure how much backing the CIP has but as you mentioned, this was then a combination with a few projects, so it'd be good if these projects [inaudible 00:41:11].

**Andrew** -: : Most of them are all signed, to contributors.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah. So I know they're all the authors, but it'd be good if they just, being just like, oh yes we're actually using this for real project of some kind. Or if you had a wallet, I know [inaudible 00:41:26] wallet included music NFTs in their wallet. So maybe it'd be good to have them.

**Andrew** -: Yeah. So they're actually one of the people that is involved with this. So maybe if we can get them to comment on it, I'll talk to them about that.

> **Matthias** -: And this is something I would love to see in the rational section as well. Exactly what you just explained. This is a collaborative effort between actual people building with, in the music industry, on, kind of, i don't know, the blockchain in general and that's also why we justifying some of the choices that have been made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: And this is something I would love to see in the rationale section as well. Exactly what you just explained. This is a collaborative effort between actual people building with, in the music industry, on, kind of, i don't know, the blockchain in general and that's also why we justifying some of the choices that have been made.
```

**Andrew** -: Okay.

**Matthias** -: That just gives a bit of context on where the decision comes from in the legitivity of that.

**Andrew** -: Okay.

**Matthias** -: From a technical standpoint, just to clarify things, this is proposing to extend the on chain with the data and the set of fields that is provided alongside current NFTs from the CIP 25 right?

**Andrew** -: That's correct. It supports CIP 25 version one and version two.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Then should we maybe move it to last check for the next goal provided that this was already discussed with a few?

> **Andrew** -: Yeah. We've had several two hour meetings with people. There was 20 different groups in the room, either producing music on Cardano or representing wallets or players or things like that. So yeah, I will add to the rational section before next meeting that this comes up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Andrew** -: Yeah. We've had several two hour meetings with people. There was 20 different groups in the room, either producing music on Cardano or representing wallets or players or things like that. So yeah, I will add to the rationale section before next meeting that this comes up.
```

**Matthias** -: Okay. Thanks.

**Andrew** -: Probably not next meeting, but maybe the meeting after, because the next meeting is always in the times I can't be at.

**Matthias** -: You're right. So let's keep that in for the US based next meeting.

**Andrew** -: Yep, thank you.

### Issues
N/A

### Close 

**Matthias** -: So let's just wrap up quickly on what we just discussed. We've been through CIP 51 at the beginning, which we agreed to rediscuss, bring back on the table after [inaudible 00:48:13] happened. Since this anyway, won't happen before [inaudible 00:48:19] and further discussions are needed, then CIP 48 extended submitted data for, sorry, for CIP 25. CIP is a bit rushed out in terms of quality and format.

> So the content itself is okay technically-wise, but there are quite a few shortcomings when it comes to how it is written. So we ask the author to fix that. CIP 30, we have agreed to just close up requests. It's been inactive for a while. The author is not responsive, so I can't close it, unfortunately, because I'm on windows. But if any of the other auditors want to do it, please do. CIP 45 then the using pledge as a bidding program, there is some overlap with CIP 50. This is part of the broader discussions about keywords and incentives and there were concerns being raised about this actually incentivizing large pledge owners to just create [inaudible 00:49:30] without actually impacting, that is a tradition of Cardano. At least not in a good way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So the content itself is okay technically-wise, but there are quite a few shortcomings when it comes to how it is written. So we asked the author to fix that. CIP 30, we have agreed to just close up requests. It's been inactive for a while. The author is not responsive. I can't close it myself, unfortunately, because I'm on windows. But if any of the other auditors want to do it, please do. CIP 45 then the using pledge as a bidding program, there is some overlap with CIP 50. This is part of the broader discussions about rewards and incentives and there were concerns being raised about this actually incentivizing large pledge owners to just create more stake pools without actually impacting the decentralization of Cardano. At least not in a good way.
```

> Then we went through CIP 68, which we agreed to put that last check for next week and merge as proposed given that's, the technical content was, already has been through many durations although there were a few points raised regarding this two-step beta data identifications that could perhaps, they discussed as well. So anyway, that will be a full two weeks before we go to the last check and we'll see for further updates after that. We've been through the NFT identity proposal to CIP 68, which also sounds technically okay, in the context of CIP 25, although it narrates the same shortcomings and flaws. So perhaps further discussions are needed. The format of that one is also a bit fleshed out and could deserve well, that be a bit more love and especially some more details on, well, the actual details of the CIPs. Possibly also some renaming, since this seems to be heavily inspired by the W3C recommendations, maybe could be made a bit clearer from the CIP title and finally CIP 60, the token metadata extension for music-related tokens, which comes as an extension of CIP 25 and has been a collaboration between many different individuals in the music industry around Cardano.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then we went through CIP 68, which we agreed to put that last check for next week and merge as proposed given that's, the technical content was, already has been through many iterations although there were a few points raised regarding this two-step beta data identifications that could perhaps, they discussed as well. So anyway, that will be a full two weeks before we go to the last check and we'll see for further updates after that. We've been through the NFT identity proposal to CIP 68, which also sounds technically okay, in the context of CIP 25, although it narrates the same shortcomings and flaws. So perhaps further discussions are needed. The format of that one is also a bit fleshed out and could deserve well, that be a bit more love and especially some more details on, well, the actual details of the CIPs. Possibly also some renaming, since this seems to be heavily inspired by the W3C recommendations, maybe could be made a bit clearer from the CIP title and finally CIP 60, the token metadata extension for music-related tokens, which comes as an extension of CIP 25 and has been a collaboration between many different individuals in the music industry around Cardano.
```

> So mainly proposing a set of 20 plus new fields that are specific to music collected NFTs. And we agreed to discuss it as the last check for not the next biweekly, but one after which will be also in the US-based time zone, with finally time zone. And that's it, sorry, we are four minutes beyond the clock and thank you all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is mainly proposing a set of 20+ new fields that are specific to music-related NFTs. And we agreed to discuss it as the last check for not the next biweekly, but one after which will be also in the US-friendly time zone. And that's it, sorry, we are four minutes beyond the clock and thank you all.
```
